#Accessing Remote Systems with SSH

One of the most popular and secure methods of accessing remote systems is SSH. It creates an encrypted tunnel between the host and the client. SSHD is the service that helps us use SSH so it would be important to enable it before using it. 

	systemctl enable --now sshd.service

Now that we have enabled it, we can use ssh to directly login to the remote system if we know the user's login details.

	ssh user@remote_host

You will be prompted for a password and once you type that in you will be given access to the system. 

This is not a very secure way of using ssh. A more secure way of using ssh is by using keys. 


SSH as a service can generate a set of keys. One public and one private. The location of these keys are in '~/.ssh/'. 

Keys can be generated by the below command

	ssh-keygen

This command will generate two keys as mentioned above. A public and a private key. We need to copy the public key to the remote system.

	ssh-copyid user@remote_host

We are going to be prompted for the pasword for the user but once that is done our key will be safely copied and we would not have to use passwords again. 


### Common options 

- -i specify the key to be used

- -p specify the port on the remote host

- -f specify the location where the generated key is to be stored. 


### Executing a command without entering the system

	ssh user@remote_host command 



To have a more detailed version of this, please visit my write up in the security [folder.](/Objectives/Security/key-based-authentication.md)

